# Black box testing is a flawed strategy

Many projects employ a black box testing strategy when it comes to testing the
UI. This is a flawed approach, but before explaining why, let's get the
terminology clear.

Some caused by [being tempted by tools like Cucumber, but [not understanding
their intention](https://cucumber.io/blog/collaboration/the-worlds-most-misunderstood-collaboration-tool/)

### Black box vs. white box testing

A _black box test_ is a test exercising the system from the outside with no
knowledge of the internals of the system (we cannot see inside, it's black).
Testing the system entirely through the UI is an example of a black-box test.

Obviously, a white box test is the opposite, you test the system with intimate
knowledge of its internals. Unit testing is an example of white box testing. TDD
typically generates white box tests.

Gray box testing uses knowledge with the internals, but stimulates the system
from the outside. A gray box test might use the internals of the system to setup
the initial state and/or verify the end state (also known as back-door
manipulation), but exercise the user interface relating to the behaviour under
test.

#### Black box testing leads to fragile tests

User interfaces may change. When the user interface for feature X is changed,
only the tests for feature X should be updated.

Black box testing the user interface will lead to fragile tests, as changes to
a part of the user interface affect the outcome of tests for other features.

> [!note]
>
> A _fragile test_, as a test anti-pattern. It is a test the often fails when
> you make code changes despite the feature still works as intended. Fragile
> tests are usually caused by test cases too closely coupled to the
> implementation.

#### Black box testing the behaviour of the UI is not possible

As the application grows, so does the number of use cases, but not all use cases
are initiated from the user interface.

Some use cases can be triggered by the passing of time, e.g., when an invoice is
past its due date, send a reminder to the customer. Some may be triggered by
events from other systems; When a user account was deleted in the identity
provider, mark all comments created by the user as deleted. And some may be
triggered by a system administrator using a CLI, like creating a new tenant in a
multi-tenant SaaS start-up, that doesn't have an automated sign-up process yet.

It's simply impossible to black box test all behaviours of the system by
exercising the user interface alone.

#### Black box tests operate at the wrong level of abstration

Imagine a user story, "Close account", and there's a rule, "A member cannot
close an account that was created by an administrator". The behaviour in the
user interface could be that for such an account, the normal button to delete an
account is replaced by a message saying "please contact ...".

To setup the initial state, you need an account that was created by an
administrator, and this should be expressed as concisely as possible in the test
case. For example, it could be:

```Go
creator := User{ Kind: UserKindAdministrator }
account := Account{ CreatedBy: creator }
userRepo.Save(creator)
accountRepo.Save(account)
currentUser := User{ Kind: UserKindMember }
```

A black box does not clearly expresses the business rules: an account created by
an administrator. The black box test describes the process to create such an
account. That process is not the focus of _this_ test; that process is tested
elsewhere.
